Let's take a look at the fingers of fingers we want we want to control for the main joint here because
that's the main access or that's the main thing we want to control all the others.
I don't think I really care about having individual access to the other joints here.
So all we really need is this main base Joint for each of the fingers.
I'll go ahead and create a circle I'll call it shape fingers and let's come in here and select one of
these fingers.
Now so this is finger thumb one.
I'll select the custom shape and find that shape fingers and click wireframe.
And so there we are.
There it is.
It's OK it's a little it's not oriented the way I would want so I'm going to select that and turn on
my manipulators.
Now let's see if I rotated in the x.
What will it do.
OK so now what if I swing it around in the Z.
That's not too bad.
Let me line up a little better.
I'm going to go into the front view and 5 and line this up so it's on axis here.
Let me scale it down a bit and now I'm going to move it.
See how this works I'm going to move it this way and this way.
So it's kind of just hovering out over the finger like so and like so.
All right so because if I select that then I should be able just to hit R and rotate it.
Yeah that works.
All right let's do that for the others I'll select this shape fingers narrative.
So each one is going to be a little bit bigger since each bone is a little bit different sized but that's
fine.
And I'll go through and do these other fingers as well.
All right well we're almost there we've got most of them done.
The last one.
It looks like is this bone for the spotlight.
What I'd like to do for this is select this bone.
And I better go to Edit mode here.
I'll select that bone and I actually select this joint and snap the cursor to it.
And then in edit mode I will press shift a to create a new bone and I'll select two that and what I
want to do is move this straight out from that bone now I'm going to go to the side view and make sure
that it's about the same distance away as the KNEEBONE here.
It doesn't need to be I'm just trying to be neat and organized and let's call this bone
light track.
Now we should create a constraint for this spotlight bone so that wherever we move this bone it tracks
or points to it at all times.
So let me come back in here to pose mode and I'll select this bone and in our constraints panel over
here let's add a bone constraint track to and of course we want to have the target be the armature have
the bone B that light track and now we see that as soon as we do that let's test it here.
I move this around.
The light points at it.
That's true.
But look at the way it's oriented it flips it around completely.
If we look at the constraint we can see that it says that the z is up and we can change this but I don't
think that's going to help us much.
Now we've got y up but it doesn't work at all.
So that's not going to help.
We really want it to be with z up and the y facing forward or tracking along the y and that's what it's
doing but it's just flipping this over so let's see what we can do about this.
I'm going to select this and remove the constraint and that'll flip it back up and go into edit mode.
And with this bone selected let's turn on the axes.
I'll go back to the armature panel.
Turn on axes and let's see if we can see.
Well if you look at this it says that the z is pointing down and the Y is pointing forward.
So in other words when we applied that constraint it automatically flipped it down so that the Z was
up.
But it was actually facing down.
So let's use the roll here.
I'll click and drag in here and we can just type in 180
and that will rearrange that so that Z is facing up and the Y is facing forward.
Let's give that a try I'll go back to pose mode now.
And the problem is is that it's flips it over.
Now when we go into polars mode.
So let's undo this.
So that's not going to work.
What we need to do before what we need to do before we rotate this is unpleasant.
The light so let's select that light here that's its own object.
Remember I'm going to press alt P and I'm going to clear the parent.
Now let's go back into edit mode and roll that back up.
So the Z's facing up.
Now if I tab back into PPOs mode I can select the light shift select that bone and press control P and
parent to the bone.
Now we should be able to go ahead and turn off axes here and go back to our bone constraint panel.
I'm going to de-select everything here when you get out of here back to object mode so I can de-select
everything so the light isn't selected like the bone go back to pose mode.
And now let's add a constraint a track to with the Z being up and tracking for the Y.
Let's choose the armature and that light track bone.
Now when we choose that bone and hit G.
Now the light tracks wherever that bone is.
That's good.
All right so now let's create a custom shape for this bone all go back to object mode.
De-select everything I'll get the cursor back to the center
and for this I'll create two circles or create one circle here.
And scale it in and then I'll create one more and maybe scale that in a bit as well.
So I get this kind of target shape so like these two and press control J to combine them into one object
and I'll call this shape light.
Now we want to choose this in pose mode and here it is.
And we want to go to the bone panel choose Custom shape type and shape and choose the shape light and
choose wireframe.
And there we go.
So it's a little big.
We can go select this go into edit mode and scale it down a bit so that we can have our custom shape
for the light.
So now if I come into pose mode let me choose.
Get out of it mode.
Choose that one.
And there we go.
Now I should be able to move that around and you can see the light comes along with it.
Well that pretty much finishes the rig for the Mac.
But the last thing we need to do is hide the bones a way that we aren't going to be using that we don't
need to see and to do that we need to come over here to the armature panel and here in the layers we
need to move them into a layer say Layer 2 that we won't be using.
So I'm going to come in here and select all of these bones just shift select them and with those selected
I can just press them and move these over to layer 2.
And there they go.
So you can see them over here.
There they are but they're hidden away so we don't have to deal with them.
I missed these AM and layer too.
Let's get the arms and the fingers here.
I'll press them and select one or two again.
Those away let's get the spotlight
and let's move this arm over to layer two as well.
All right.
So there is the rig so we should be able to select this and move it down and around like this in the
arms and move them around and the legs and move those around.
And that's great.
But the problem is now we have one more thing we need to do.
The problem is is he's going to be moving through the scene.
But if I try and select this and move him.
Look at what happens.
It leaves a lot of the rig behind.
So all right click to get him back there.
So what we need to do is create a master control that allows us to just select one item and move the
entire rig and character around the scene.